Within a few days of you trying to use Node with multiple
services in the Compose file, whether you've got a database
behind it, or you've got an API with a frontend, or
something else, you're going to run into a couple of these
problems around startup order, dependencies,
connection errors and stuff like that.
This is all centered around a couple of key problems that
you can solve. It's just not quite obvious out-of-the-box.
You'll know you've got issues when you do something like a
docker compose up and your Node app errors and
exits. But, your database was starting up and so maybe your
Node app got started first.
Or maybe the Node app started so quickly it actually said
it could not resolve the DNS name of something else that it
depends on, like a database.
Or, maybe you're using the Docker Compose feature where
you can specify the service.
So, if you have a bunch of services and you don't want to
spin them all up, you just do a docker compose up with
the service name. And that's great.
But, that service might need something else to be running
for it to even work, like a database.
So, there's a dependency going on there that you need to
clarify in the Compose file.
Really we're talking about three concerns here.
Dependency awareness, and that's mostly using the depends
on feature inside the Compose file.
Name resolution because that's how services find each
other. That's using DNS inside the Docker Engine
on the Docker networks.
And connection failure handling.
So what happens when your Node app starts up and it can't
talk to the database yet because the database isn't ready?
Or maybe you take the database down and the Node app
still needs to talk to it.
That sort of stuff.
The first feature here that you probably are already using,
or at least heard of, is the depends on feature.
There is a little bit of confusion around this one as well
because this key feature for Docker Compose local
CLI has changed between Version 2
and Version 3 of the Compose file.
That's why I stress you should be using the V2 version
of that file because we get more out of the depends on
feature.
And out-of-the-box with depends on, it's really only
about dependency relationships.
It's not about, by default, making sure that your database
is ready for connections when you start up your Node app.
That's disappointing to a lot of people when they just turn
it on and think that it's going to suddenly work if they
just say inside of their Node app configuration,
depends on Mongo, or something like that, and they
realize that that's not enough.
But, it does solve two important parts of this puzzle.
The first is DNS.
Often, what'll happen is your Node app will instantly start
up and search for a name like the service name of a
database, or another API or something, inside your Compose
file. If it gets a DNS name not found,
often with the way the DNS caching works,  the app
just error out and not retry.
It won't try again. It'll just say, this name doesn't even
exist and it will exit.
So, this depends on ensures that at least
anything that your app depends on, any of that service
depends on, those things start first.
Doesn't mean that they're ready first.
It just means they've started.
That means that their DNS name will at least resolve to
their proper IP in the Docker networks.
Reminder here, that we're really talking about local Docker
Compose CLI use.
There's a little bit difference of a setup if you're going
to be in production and how you're going to deal with all
these problems. Something you'll see in the next lecture,
is we can add on a feature to the waits on
in the YAML that truly does give us a
waits for like experience where it will wait
on dependencies like a database to truly be ready for
connections using a Docker healthcheck.
We don't get that in Version 3 of the YAML.
That's why it's important to stick with Version 2.
The other common feature here that's shown a lot in
examples in blogs, and in the Docker official images, is
the restart. This is a little bit of a weird one
because I often don't like using restart
on my apps when I'm using Docker Compose locally because
there is a good and a bad side to the setting.
The good part about it is that if your Node app fails on
startup because maybe some dependency, like a database,
isn't ready, it will restart the Node app.
That's Docker restarting the container when the container
crashes. A better way to do this, really, is
to use the depends on so that you don't have that problem
to begin with.
The bad part about this feature, if you set it on
web apps, or Node apps, is that you can get
into a restart cycle with that in Docker Compose
where it's constantly restarting your frontend app,
waiting on a database to load or something.
It can get CPU spikes.
It may not be obvious to you if you're not looking straight
at the logs or at the ps command where you can see things
going up and down. You may not realize that it's spinning
and cycling through the app over and over again.
I tend to, out-of-the-gate with my apps, not
do the restart.
The default is off where it won't restart at all.
If my app exits, then I've probably got something else I
need to look at. Either there's a problem with the app
itself, which wasn't going to get fixed with a restart.
Or, it's something to do with my depends on, and I need a
better depends on in healthcheck to make sure that my apps
are coming up and waiting for the proper order.
The real, long-term solution here, especially
for production, is to build waits
and restarts inside your apps.
When you're talking about distributed computing, and
everything we're building nowadays is somewhat distributed,
you've definitely got at least a Node app and something
else it needs to talk to. It's rare to have just a single
container running in complete isolation without some
dependency. Anything else it needs to work with
is usually going to be either in a different container, or
a different server, or across different networks.
The app itself needs to be able to retry
things, especially databases.
Every database connection technology I've worked with has
some sort of retry built in.
It just may not be on by default.
When you're building your apps, and you're using something
like, you know there's a Mongo database connector, and
there's Postgres, and MySQL and all the other database
technologies, typically have a Node connector
that you can use a driver, basically.
That usually has settings, at least on every one I've
looked at, where you can have it buffer connections
so that in case the backend goes down, it actually stores
them in memory and waits for the backend to come back up
eventually. You can have it retry over
a certain amount of time. You can have it wait for a
response for a certain amount of time in case, maybe, the
backend is slow or too busy to acknowledge connections.
So, there's lots of stuff there. Every technology is
different, so I'm not going to give you any examples here.
I just recommend you go and look at that, because you need
to build that in your app so that when you go to
production, this doesn't have a worse problem than what
you're going to experience here in local dev.